ROUND: 41-candidate-gauntlet-2026-07-26 — VERDICT LEG (round 2).
Fresh grader (nt=0); no continuity with the first reviewer assumed.

READ FIRST, IN ORDER:
1. AGENTS.md at the workspace root (bedrock).
2. reviews/rounds/41-candidate-gauntlet-2026-07-26/doc-under-review-r2.md
   — THE GRADED TEXT (sha256 4832bfe7ce7718decb9df39e189dffcbddf008712b333dacd79426314da158aa).
   r1 bytes (doc-under-review.md, d1df2afc…) are superseded; read
   them only to verify a repair's delta.
3. reviews/rounds/41-candidate-gauntlet-2026-07-26/sol-candidate-findings.md
   — the r1 register: verdict REPAIRS-FIRST, five MAJORs, all
   accepted by user ruling and repaired.
4. reviews/rounds/41-candidate-gauntlet-2026-07-26/census-41.py —
   the committed census generator (sha256 02331f65…), the repair
   for finding 1. Run it yourself:
   cd <workspace> && python3 ops/census-41.py
   (the ops/ copy and the round copy are byte-identical; verify.)
5. staged-repos/custos/spec/custos-4.0-kernel-draft.md — ratified
   predecessor (9cefdc5d…7315).

THE FIVE REPAIRS (grade each COMPLETE / PARTIAL / MISSING /
OVER-APPLIED, with r2 line cites):

R1 (census inaccuracy): the appendix's census is now GENERATED —
the committed script recomputes both censuses against final bytes
under the predeclared byte-identity rule and fails loudly on any
unclaimed line. Current output: 1,546 predecessor nonblank lines,
181 deltas, eight groups (…118 meld; 3 gauntlet-repairs), zero
unexplained. The appendix states the generated totals, names the
generator, declares the staleness rule (census re-run after every
edit), and group 7's prose subgroups are explicitly demoted to
description with the generator's assignment the census of record.
VERIFY BY RUNNING THE SCRIPT — a census repair graded on prose
alone would repeat the original defect.

R2 (identical-GELs contradiction): the definitions section's
Constitution entry now states identity over the closed triple
(evidence bundle, law head, appraisal position), declares the GEL
alone insufficient, and cites Chapter 1's second axiom.

R3 (GEL bootstrap): §17 gains "The bootstrap." — initial track
placement and initial ilk table are clauses of the
inception-sealed founding law (the genesis knot), readable before
any GEL event is consumed; adopted domains ground the same
commitments at their confessed lesser grade; migration is
admitted under the grammar previously in force; underivable
commitments refuse (missing rule, not missing evidence), the
refusal naming the underivable commitment.

R4 (vector families): the §17 vectors paragraph now enumerates
the five previously-uncovered refusal paths: genesis-underivable
track/table, unlawful migration, unknown-ilk
evidence-vs-underivable-grammar refusal boundary,
reservation-vs-recognition, premature compact-form use.

R5 (abstract economic assurance): the economics paragraph now
carries the evidence grade in a following sentence — the economy
is "the design's claim, stated at the design's grade," its
deployment-scale record a committed unfinished deliverable no
clause presumes discharged. The user-sacrosanct sentences are
byte-unchanged (verify).

PART B — fresh sweep of the five repair compositions ONLY (new
prose = new attack surface). Named seams: (a) R3's bootstrap —
does "the event that changes the grammar is admitted under the
grammar it changes" hold for the degenerate first-migration case,
and does the adopted-domain clause create an underivable state
the refusal rule doesn't cover? (b) R1's staleness rule — is
"re-run after every edit" enforceable as stated, or does it need
a ceremony-gate formulation (census green at ceremony bytes)?
(c) R5 — does the added sentence contradict the §14/§15-era
openness confessions or align with them? (d) the census's G7/G8
group boundary — is assigning the three repaired predecessor
lines to G8 sound when the repair also ADDED no-counterpart text
the census cannot see (additions are outside the delta rule)?

PART C — VERDICT, closed menu: FIT-FOR-CEREMONY / REPAIRS-FIRST /
REARCHITECT. If FIT: enumerate the ceremony checklist (verifier
update comparing the 4.1 digest against a SUCCESSION.md successor
row; the row itself; anchor events at the gAID; census green at
ceremony bytes; ceremony facts detached) and any non-blocking
conditions traveling to it. State the single strongest reversal
consideration.

LAWS: findings-not-edits; read-only EXCEPT running the committed
census script (execution is verification, not editing);
user-sacrosanct spans byte-fixed; cite lines; fixture-pending
over assertion.
